docs: updates & rewrites to actors in store page (#878)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/running/store.md

:::

## Pricing models

All Actors in [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store) fall into one of the three pricing models:

1. [**Rental**](#rental-actors) - to continue using the Actor after the trial period, you must rent the Actor from the developer and pay a flat monthly fee in addition to the costs associated with the platform usage that the Actor generates.
2. [**Pay per result**](#pay-per-result) - you do not pay for platform usage the Actor generates and instead just pay for the results it produces.
3. [**Pay per usage**](#pay-per-usage) - you can run the Actor and you pay for the platform usage the Actor generates.

### Rental Actors

Rental Actors are Actors for which you have to pay a recurring fee to the developer after your trial period ends. This empowers the developer to dedicate more time and effort to their Actors, thus ensuring they are of the _highest quality_ and receive _ongoing maintenance_.

![Rental Actor example](./images/store/rental-actor-example.png)

> Each rental Actor has a _free trial_ period. The lenght of the trail is displayed in each Actor's page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rental Actor has a _free trial_ period. The length of the trial is displayed on each Actor's page.
```

![Rental Actors in Apify Store](./images/store/rental-actor-trial-example.png)

> After a trial period, a flat monthly _Actor rental_ fee is automatically subtracted from your prepaid platform usage in advance for the following month. This fee goes directly to the developer and is paid on top of the platform usage generated by the Actor. You can read more about our motivation for releasing rental Actors in [this blog post](https://blog.apify.com/make-regular-passive-income-developing-web-automation-actors-b0392278d085/) from Apify's CEO Jan Čurn.

Reviewer 2: `This fee goes directly to the developer`. This is actually no longer true, only 80% goes to developer. But maybe we don't have to be that specific. Let's just say `most of this fee goes directly to the developer`

#### Rental Actors - Frequently Asked Questions

##### Can I run rental Actors via API or the Apify client?

Yes, when you are renting an Actor, you can run it using either our [API](/api/v2), [JavaScript](/api/client/js) or [Python](/api/client/python) clients as you would do with private or free public Actors.

##### Do I pay platform costs for running rental Actors?

> Yes, you will pay normal [platform usage costs](https://apify.com/pricing/actors) on top of the per month Actor rental fee. The platform costs work exactly the same way as for free public Actors or your private Actors. You should find estimates of the cost of usage in each individual rental Actor's README ([see an example](https://apify.com/drobnikj/crawler-google-places#how-much-will-it-cost)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, you will pay normal [platform usage costs](https://apify.com/pricing/actors) on top of the monthly Actor rental fee. The platform costs work exactly the same way as for free public Actors or your private Actors. You should find estimates of the cost of usage in each individual rental Actor's README ([see an example](https://apify.com/drobnikj/crawler-google-places#how-much-will-it-cost)).
```

Reviewer: Not sure why you changed that. It was fine (and better) as it was.

Author: it was to adhere to Msoft Style Guide, but after some consideration I think I will modify Vale setup to turn it off as it does not make much sense.

##### Do I need an Apify paid plan to use rental Actors?

You don't need a paid plan to start a rental Actor's free trial. Just activate the trial, and you are good to go. After that, you will need to subscribe to one of [Apify's paid plans](https://apify.com/pricing) in order to keep renting the Actor and continue using it.

##### When will I be charged for the Actor rental?

You always prepay the Actor rental for the following month. The first payment happens when the trial expires, and then recurs monthly. When you open the Actor in the Apify Console, you will see when the next rental payment is due, and you will also receive a notification when it happens.

> _Example_: You activate a 7-day trial of an Actor at _noon of April 1, 2021_. If you don't turn off auto renewal, you will be charged at _noon on April 8, 2021_, then _May 8, 2021_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Example_: You activate a 7-day trial of an Actor at _noon of April 1, 2021_. If you don't turn off auto-renewal, you will be charged at _noon on April 8, 2021_, then _May 8, 2021_.
```

##### How am I charged for Actor rental?

The rental fee for an Actor is automatically subtracted from your prepaid platform usage, similarly to, e.g. [compute units](./usage_and_resources.md). If you don't have enough usage prepaid, you will need to cover any overage in the next invoice.

##### Will I be automatically charged at the end of the free trial?

> If you have an [Apify paid plan](https://apify.com/pricing), the per month rental fee will be automatically subtracted from your plans' prepaid usage at the end of your free trial and you will be able to run the Actor for another month. If you are not subscribed to an Apify plan, you will need to subscribe to one of [Apify's paid plans](https://apify.com/pricing) in order to continue using the Actor after the trial has ended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an [Apify paid plan](https://apify.com/pricing), the monthly rental fee will be automatically subtracted from your plan's prepaid usage at the end of your free trial, and you will be able to run the Actor for another month. If you are not subscribed to any of [Apify's paid plans](https://apify.com/pricing), you will need to subscribe to one in order to continue using the Actor after the trial has ended.
```

##### Can I cancel my Actor rental?

> _You can cancel the Actor rental_ during your trial or any time after that so that don't get charged when your current Actor rental period expires. You can always turn it back on later if you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_You can cancel the Actor rental_ during your trial or any time after that so you don't get charged when your current Actor rental period expires. You can always turn it back on later if you want.
```

##### Where can I see how much I have paid for Actor rental?

Since Actor rental fees are paid from prepaid platform usage, these fees conceptually belong under platform usage.

> You can find the breakdown of how much you have been charged for rental Actors within **Actors** tab in **Current period** tab in the [Billing](https://console.apify.com/billing) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the breakdown of how much you have been charged for rental Actors in the **Actors** tab, which you will find within the **Current period** tab in the [Billing](https://console.apify.com/billing) section.
```

![Rental Actors billing in Apify Console](./images/store/billing-paid-actors.png)

### Pay per result

> When you run an Actor that is _paid per result_, you pay for the successful results that an Actor returns when you run it, and you are not charged for the underlying platform usage. Technically, we validate the _results_ against a schema, and you are only charged for the valid items in the [dataset](https://docs.apify.com/platform/storage/dataset) of the Actor run.

Reviewer 2: `Technically, we validate the _results_ against a schema, and you are only charged for the valid items in the [dataset](https://docs.apify.com/platform/storage/dataset) of the Actor run.`

Check this with Jarda or Zenda, I don't think everything is validated just yet.

##### Do I pay for the storage of results on the Apify platform?

You will still be charged for the timed storage of the data in the same fashion as with any other Actor. You can always decide to delete the dataset to reduce your costs after you export the data from the platform. By default, any unnamed dataset will be automatically removed after your data retention period, so usually, this is nothing to worry about.

##### Can I set a cap on how many results an Actor should return?

You can set a limit on how many items an Actor should return and the amount you will be charged in Options on the Actor detail page in the section below the Actor input.

![Max items for pay-per-result](./images/store/pay_per_result_max_items.png)

##### Can I publish an Actor that is paid per result?

> Publishing an Actor that is paid per result is not yet available publicly as this pricing model is still in beta.

Reviewer 2: **Important:** It is now available publicly, anybody can do it.

![Actor pay-per-result cost](./images/store/pay_per_result_actor_items.png)

### Pay per usage

When you use a pay per usage Actor, you are only charged for the platform usage that the runs of this Actor generate. [Platform usage](./usage_and_resources.md) includes components such as compute units, operations on [storages](/platform/storage), and usage of [residential proxies](/platform/proxy/residential-proxy) or [SERPs](/platform/proxy/google-serp-proxy).

![Pay for usage Actor example](./images/store/pay-per-usage-actor-example.png)

:::info Estimating Actor usage cost

With this model, it's very easy to see how many platform resources each Actor run consumed, but it is quite difficult to estimate their usage beforehand. The best way to find the costs of free Actors upfront is to try out the Actor on a limited scope (for example, on a small number of pages) and evaluate the consumption. You can easily do that using our [free plan](https://apify.com/pricing).

_For more information on platform usage cost see the [usage and resources](./usage_and_resources.md) page._

:::

## Reporting issues with Actors

> Each Actor has an **Issues** tab in the Apify Console. There, you can open an issue (ticket) and chat with the Actor's author, platform admins,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Actor has an **Issues** tab in Apify Console. There, you can open an issue (ticket) and chat with the Actor's author, platform admins,
```

> and other users of this Actor. Please, feel free to use the tab to ask any questions, request new features or give feedback, or you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and other users of this Actor. Please feel free to use the tab to ask any questions, request new features, or give feedback. Alternatively, you can
```
